Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A.
Programming language is a set of instructions, syntaxes and rules used to create software applications.
They are mostly high level languages that can be understood by human to develop the logic and then translated
by compilers and interpreters to machine language. ex: Java.

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A.
JDK is Java Development Kits. It composed of jre, jvm and editors. jre is java runtime environment.
jvm is java virtual machine. and text editor to write the programs.


What is IDE?
A.
IDE  stands for Integrated development Environment. It is a software suite for writing, compiling and running
an application during development.

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A.
Eclipse, IntelliJ, NetBeans.

Explain the entire java life cycle.
A.
Coding(writing the program), Compiling(java compiler) tob bytecode, jvm(translate byte code to machine code.
and jre for running the program.

what is class?
A.
A class in java is a blue print for java object. In other words it is structure from which many
objects can be created. It holds the most common fields and attributes.

What is object?
A.
Java object is an instance of the class.

What is the entry point of an application?
A.
main method is the entry point to the java application.

Why main is static?
A.
main method is static because it can be accessed without the class instanciation.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
A.
java.lang.Object

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
A.
path is system environment variable point to where jdk is installed, while
classpath is for the location where java classes are saved.


What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
A.
Interface is a contract that hold methods declaration without implementation. They are used when
 we know the requirements but not the implementation.
 Abstract class in the other hand is used when we know partial implementation but not all.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?

A.
we cannot make object out of Interface or Abstract class. We need concrete class that can
extends the Abstract class and implements the Interface.


what is Access Specifier?
Access specifier is java keywords that specify the level of access and visibility of variable,
method, and class. they are (public, default, private, protected, strictfp).

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
A.

OOP is Object Oriented Programming. OOP has the following features:
Inheritance : It is a mechanism in which one class inherit feature from another class.
Polymorphism : Polymorphism means many forms. It is a concept by which we can perform
a single action in different ways. Two types of polymorphism: Overloading(early/static binding )
and Overriding(dynamic/late binding).
Encapsulation :It is a way of wrapping code and data to gother in a single unit. we may use p0rivate
variables and use getters and setters to access them.

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
A.
Java package is a folder(storage) area where related classes and interfaces are stored. Packages
used to prevent naming  conflict, reusability and organizatio.
java.lang package  is imported by default.

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
A.
API stands for Application Programming Interface. It consists of all classes that are part of
the Java development kit . It includes all Java packages, classes, and interfaces, along with
their methods, fields, and constructors. They  provide a tremendous amount of functionality
to  programmers.

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why  or why not?
A.
Java does'nt support multiple inheritance. If there are methods in parent and child classes
that have same signature that will create a problem of which method to call.

What is method overloading and when it happens?
A.
Method overloading is the mechanism of having methods with same name but different set of
parameters either parameters types, number, oir order must be different. It happen at compile
time(early binding).

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
A
Exception is an interruption to the normal flow of the program execution. We include the code
that may cause exception within a try block, and and handle it in the catch block. we use finally
to close opened resources.

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
A.
static indicates that the particular member belongs to a type(class) rather than to an instance
of that type. This means that only one instance of that static member is created which is shared
across all instances of the class in the case of variables.  Static methods can be acdess directly
 using th class name.

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
A.
Final define a constant. For final variable we cannot change its value once we assign it.
Final methods cannot be overriden.

What is final, finally and finalize?
A.
Final class can't be inherited, final method can't be overridden and final variable value can't be
changed. Finally is used to place important code, it will be executed whether exception is handled or not.
 Finalize is used to perform clean up processing just before object is garbage collected

What is a constructor ?
A.
A constructor in Java is a special method that is used to initialize objects. The constructor
is called when an object of a class is created. It used to initialize  instance variables.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
A.
Yes. a class can have multiple constructor.

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
A.
The default constructor will be called.

What is "this" keyword in java ?
A.
"this" key is a reference variable that used to refere to the current class object.


What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
A.
"super" key word  in Java is a reference variable which is used to refer immediate parent
class object. Whenever you create the instance of subclass, an instance of parent class is
created implicitly which is referred by super reference variable.
 super can be used to:
  1- refer immediate parent class instance variable.
  2- invoke immediate parent class method.
  3- super() can be used to invoke immediate parent class constructor.


What is JVM stand for ?
A.
jvm stands for Java Virtual Machine.

Is JVM platform independent?
A.
No. jvm is platform dependent.

What version of java are you using?
A.
I am using Java version 8.0.

What is JAR stand for ?
A.
JAR stands for Java Archive.

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
A.
JVM stands for JAVA Virtual Machine.It converts the byte code into an executable code.
JDK Java Development Kit is the core component of Java Environment and provides all
the tools, executables and binaries required to compile, debug and execute a Java Program.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
A.
JVM is java virtual machine which translate java byte codes into machine code.
JRE java RunTime Environment. jre actually run the application.

What is compile time and run time?
A.
Compile time is when the byte code being generated(.class files).
Run time when executable code being executed(run .exe files).

What is heap?
A.
Heap is a runtime memory area where class instances, arrays, and others are stored.

How java manage it's memory?
A.
ava divide memory into heap memory where class instances and arrays are stored. And stack
where variables are stored.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
A.
String   : is immutable object, that is when allocated a value  it cannot be changed. Any changes
 will be stored cannot be changed.

StringBuffer is mutable means one can change the value of the object . The object created
through StringBuffer is stored in the heap. StringBuffer has the same methods as the
StringBuilder , but each method in StringBuffer is synchronized that is StringBuffer is thread
safe .

StringBuilder :  is same as the StringBuffer , that is it stores the object in heap and it can also
be modified . The main difference between the StringBuffer and StringBuilder is
that StringBuilder is also not thread safe.
StringBuilder is fast as it is not thread safe .

What is Singleton class?
A.
Singleton is a class that is designed to generate only one instance/object by using private
constructor.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
A.
Serialization is a mechanism of converting the state of an object into a byte stream.
Deserialization is the reverse process where the byte stream is used to recreate the actual
Java object in memory.

when to use transient variable in java?
A.
Transient variable is a variable that cannot be serialized during serialization.

Difference between while and do..while loop?
A.
while loop check the condition first. do-while run the loop body atleast once, then check the
 condition

What is Enum?
A.
Java enum  is a special data type that enables us to assign a variable to  a set of predefined
constants. The variable must be equal to one of the values that have been predefined for it.
examples week  whick has values of (MONDAY, TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY, THURSDAY, FRIDAY, SATURDAY, SUNDAY)


What is Iterator?
A.
Iterator is java interface that allow us to itterate through java collection elemnts one by one.
moving forward with ability to remove elements.

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
A.
Integer takes more memory.

Why is String Immutable in Java?
A.
By using string POOL many string may refere to same object in the pool. that is why they made
String immutable.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
What is JIT stands for?
Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
what is multithreading in java?
What is the use of synchronization in Java?
What is Framework?
What are the testing Framework available in java?
Difference between jUnit and testNG?
What are the dependencies for this project?
what is dependency injection in java?
What is static binding and dynamic binding?









